AI is poised to aid scientific discovery by acting as a way to bridge the gaps between specialized disciplines and image processing information from multiple fields. AI can help scientists explore a wider range of hypotheses, and use machine learning to identify new possibilities. “AI approaches that augment human capabilities can be very valuable in situations where humans and AI have complementary strengths. An AI system might be better at synthesizing available data and making decisions in well-characterized parts of a problem, while a human may be better at understanding the implications of the data” (Report 1). In drug discovery, “‘you can now use AI imagination to create molecules with the desired properties that do not exist in the known chemical space,’ says Alex Zhavoronkov, CEO of generative AI-driven biotech company Insilico Medicine” (Elliott). This further accelerates the process of bringing new medicines to market. AI systems can make strategic choices about research goals, design protocols and experiments to collect data, and communicate the innovation behind their discoveries. AI-driven materials discovery is also a major area of impact, where AI can design, simulate, and synthesize new materials with specific properties. This includes integrating information from scientific literature, experimental results, and computational models. “not only does GPT-4 demonstrate a high level of proficiency in different domains such as literature, medicine, law, mathematics, physical sciences, and programming, but it is also able to combine skills and concepts from multiple domains with fluidity, showing an impressive comprehension of complex ideas” (Report 2). Moreover, AI can analyze complex datasets to discover patterns and provide insights, and it can be used to analyze how things shift over time. AI will further be able to process experimental information, and produce a full experimental design, without the help of a human to complete the experiment itself. Ultimately, AI can aid human capabilities by synthesizing data and making decisions, while people can bring their understanding of actions to research. AI’s ability to analyze large datasets and identify patterns using machine learning, deep learning, and reinforcement learning are core to its potential in scientific discovery. AI systems can move beyond analyzing existing data to actively creating new possibilities, including suggesting novel hypotheses and material designs. It is intriguing to see how AI can help change the way science is conducted just in the next couple of years.